applications: nrf_desktop: Document HID eventq utility (#22676)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/doc/hid_eventq.rst

.. _nrf_desktop_hid_eventq:

HID event queue utility
#######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The HID event queue utility can be used by an application module to temporarily queue HID events related to keypresses (button press or release) to handle them later.

Configuration
*************

Make sure that heap size (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_HEAP_MEM_POOL_SIZE`) is large enough to handle the worst possible use case.
Data structures used to internally queue HID events are dynamically allocated using the :c:func:`k_malloc` function.
When no longer needed, the structures are freed using the :c:func:`k_free` function.

Use the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_HID_EVENTQ <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option to enable the utility.
You can use the utility only on HID peripherals (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_ROLE_HID_PERIPHERAL <config_desktop_app_options>`).

See Kconfig help for more details.

Using HID event queue
*********************

> The utility can be internally used by an application module that handles keypresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application module that handles keypresses internally uses this utility.
```

Initialization
==============

> Initialize an utility instance before use (:c:func:`hid_eventq_init`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initialize a utility instance before use using the :c:func:`hid_eventq_init` function.
```

Specify the limit of queued HID events to limit heap usage.

Queuing keypresses
==================

You can use the :c:func:`hid_eventq_keypress_enqueue` function to enqueue a keypress event.
You can use the :c:func:`hid_eventq_keypress_get` function to get a keypress event from the queue.
The keypress events are queued in FIFO (first in first out) manner.

> An ID is used to identify button related to the keypress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An ID is used to identify the button related to the keypress.
```

> The ID could be for example an application-specific identifier of a hardware button or HID usage ID.
> 
> You can use the :c:func:`hid_eventq_is_full` and :c:func:`hid_eventq_is_empty` functions respectively to determine if the queue is full or empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ID could be, for example, an application-specific identifier of a hardware button or HID usage ID.

You can use the :c:func:`hid_eventq_is_full` and :c:func:`hid_eventq_is_empty` functions, respectively, to determine if the queue is full or empty.
```

Clearing the queue
==================

You can use the :c:func:`hid_eventq_reset` function to reset the queue.
Resetting the queue results in dropping all of the enqueued keypresses.

> You can use the :c:func:`hid_eventq_cleanup` to remove stale keypresses (with timestamp lower than provided minimal valid timestamp).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the :c:func:`hid_eventq_cleanup` to remove stale keypresses (with timestamp lower than the provided minimal valid timestamp).
```
